lambda/assets/README.md, before:

---
---

# Asset Manager

The Assets Lambda manages storage of long-duration Assets, defining the structure of the game world.

---

## Needs Addressed

---

***S3 Intake***
- Asset details must be stored in non-volatile S3 files in WML format
- Asset meta-data must be extracted from the S3 files automatically upon upload or change
- Assets must be able to be healed at any time by reconstructing them from their S3 file
- Assets must be able to exist in and move between three zones of access:
    - Personal assets are shown only to the player who owns them, or as part of Stories they share
    - Library assets are shown only as part of Stories they are imported into
    - Canon assets are shown to all players

***Denormalized Meta-Data***
- For a given asset, the manager should optimize *fetch* on a question of this form (even if that
optimization costs resources at *insert* time):
    - "Show me the default *inherited* values for all items referenced in this asset, as imported
    from other assets.  Including:
        - Default names and descriptions of all Components
        - Previous layers of all Maps, as shown in default condition"
- For a given asset and component ID, the manager should optimize *fetch* on a question of
this form:
    - "Show me all appearances of this component, in all ancestor assets in the import tree,
    in an order in which their dependencies do not conflict (DAG-sorted imports)."

***Caching***
- For a given asset, the manager must be able to cache the asset from long-term compact storage
into short-term read-optimized storage.
- This caching should pull *all* relevant information from the S3 file, so that the game system
can perform all normal game-play functions purely out of the short-term DB.
- Re-caching must perform the bare minimum of touches on the short-term storage, to minimize
disruptions to game-play of creative changes.

---

## Outlets

- ***upload handler***: Handler for S3 event on **uploads** folder in Asset S3 bucket.
- ***heal***: Heals all player information from Cognito, assigning characters as they are currently
assigned in the Asset DB.
- ***healAsset***: Accepts an AssetID, looks it up based on current meta-data stored in the DB,
and reprocesses its WML file
- ***move***: Manually moves an asset file (specified by fileName argument) from the fromPath argument
to the toPath argument (May be candidate for deprecation)
- ***checkout***: Moves an asset (specified by checkout) from the Library to the personal assets
of a player (specified by PlayerName)
- ***checkin***: Moves an asset (specified by checkin) from the Personal assets of a player into
the Library
- ***canonize***: Moves an asset (specified by canonize) from the Library into Canon
- ***upload***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to upload an asset of type "tag" into "fileName" in
the personal assets of "PlayerName", and return updates on "RequestId"
- ***uploadImage***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to upload an Image of type "fileExtension" in
the personal assets of "PlayerName", and return updates on "RequestId"
- ***fetch***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to fetch "AssetId" from "fileName" in the personal
assets of "PlayerName"
- ***cache***: Generates a non-instanced set of short-term DB entries in the *Ephemera* table for the
asset ID specified in the "cache" argument
- ***instantiate***: Generates an instanced set of short-term DB entries in the *Ephemera* table for
the asset ID specified in the "instantiate" argument

---

## S3

---

### Expected S3 Contents, before or after

Expects incoming files in WML Format, with ".wml" extensions

Generates (and later uses) ".translate.json" extension files on the same root name, to track how
local scopedId keys are mapped to global UUID internal DB keys.

---

## Meta::Asset records

---

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory

### *S3 Meta-Data*

- fileName
- translateFile
- player
- zone

### *Namespace Meta-Data*

- importTree
- namespaceMap

### *Asset Denormalizations*

- defaultNames
- defaultExits

---

## <Component\> records

---

*For any tag in the component types (Room, Feature), a record will be stored in an adjacency list associated with*
*the Asset (by placing the Asset's AssetId in the DataCategory field of the component record)*

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory
- scopedId

### *Component Denormalization*

- defaultAppearances

---

## Meta::Map records

---

*For any Map, a record will be stored in an adjacency list associated with the Asset (by placing the Asset's*
*AssetId in the DataCategory field of the map record)*

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory
- scopedId

### *Map Denormalization*

- defaultAppearances

---

Commit message:

ISS887: Updated top level Asset README

lambda/assets/README.md, after:

---
---

# Asset Manager

The Assets Lambda manages storage of long-duration Assets, defining the structure of the game world.

---

## Needs Addressed

---

***S3 Intake***
- Asset details must be stored in non-volatile S3 files in WML format
- Asset meta-data must be extracted from the S3 files automatically upon upload or change
- Assets must be able to be healed at any time by reconstructing them from their S3 file
- Assets must be able to exist in and move between three zones of access:
    - Personal assets are shown only to the player who owns them, or as part of Stories they share
    - Library assets are shown only as part of Stories they are imported into
    - Canon assets are shown to all players

***Denormalized Meta-Data***
- For a given asset, the manager should optimize *fetch* on a question of this form (even if that
optimization costs resources at *insert* time):
    - "Show me the default *inherited* values for all items referenced in this asset, as imported
    from other assets.  Including:
        - Default names and descriptions of all Components
        - Previous layers of all Maps, as shown in default condition"
- For a given asset and component ID, the manager should optimize *fetch* on a question of
this form:
    - "Show me all appearances of this component, in all ancestor assets in the import tree,
    in an order in which their dependencies do not conflict (DAG-sorted imports)."

***Caching***
- For a given asset, the manager must be able to cache the asset from long-term compact storage
into short-term read-optimized storage.
- This caching should pull *all* relevant information from the S3 file, so that the game system
can perform all normal game-play functions purely out of the short-term DB.
- Re-caching must perform the bare minimum of touches on the short-term storage, to minimize
disruptions to game-play of creative changes.

---

## Outlets

- ***upload handler***: Handler for S3 event on **uploads** folder in Asset S3 bucket.
- ***heal***: Heals all player information from Cognito, assigning characters as they are currently
assigned in the Asset DB.
- ***healAsset***: Accepts an AssetID, looks it up based on current meta-data stored in the DB,
and reprocesses its WML file
- ***move***: Manually moves an asset file (specified by fileName argument) from the fromPath argument
to the toPath argument (May be candidate for deprecation)
- ***checkout***: Moves an asset (specified by checkout) from the Library to the personal assets
of a player (specified by PlayerName)
- ***checkin***: Moves an asset (specified by checkin) from the Personal assets of a player into
the Library
- ***canonize***: Moves an asset (specified by canonize) from the Library into Canon
- ***upload***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to upload an asset of type "tag" into "fileName" in
the personal assets of "PlayerName", and return updates on "RequestId"
- ***uploadImage***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to upload an Image of type "fileExtension" in
the personal assets of "PlayerName", and return updates on "RequestId"
- ***fetch***: Generates a pre-signed S3 URL to fetch "AssetId" from "fileName" in the personal
assets of "PlayerName"
- ***cache***: Generates a non-instanced set of short-term DB entries in the *Ephemera* table for the
asset ID specified in the "cache" argument
- ***instantiate***: Generates an instanced set of short-term DB entries in the *Ephemera* table for
the asset ID specified in the "instantiate" argument

---

## S3

---

### Expected S3 Contents, before or after

Expects incoming files in WML Format, with ".wml" extensions

Generates (and later uses) ".translate.json" extension files on the same root name, to track how
local scopedId keys are mapped to global UUID internal DB keys.

---

## Meta::Asset records

---

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory

### *S3 Meta-Data*

- fileName: The fully qualified filename at which the WML data for the asset is stored in S3
- translateFile: The fully qualified filename at which the translation JSON file for the asset is stored in S3
- player: The internal ID of the player (if any) for whom this is a personal asset
- zone:  The zone ('Personal', 'Library', or 'Canon') in which the asset is stored and published.

### *Namespace Meta-Data*

- importTree:  importTree is a nested map.  Each key at the top level represents the owning asset importing values from the asset named in the key.  The *value* stored under that key is, itself, a nested tree of what imports that named asset makes, and so on down the entire tree.
- namespaceMap

### *Asset Denormalizations*

- defaultNames: A mapping from internal scopedId for components to the name (if any) that would be defined for that component in this asset if all conditions return false
- defaultExits: A mapping of all exits defined in this asset if all conditions return false

---

## <Component\> records

---

*For any tag in the component types (Room, Feature), a record will be stored in an adjacency list associated with*
*the Asset (by placing the Asset's AssetId in the DataCategory field of the component record)*

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory
- scopedId:  The key used internally within the asset to refer to this component

### *Component Denormalization*

- defaultAppearances

---

## Meta::Map records

---

*For any Map, a record will be stored in an adjacency list associated with the Asset (by placing the Asset's*
*AssetId in the DataCategory field of the map record)*

### *Key Data*

- AssetId
- DataCategory
- scopedId

### *Map Denormalization*

- defaultAppearances

---
