lambda/assets/serialize/documentation/README.scopeMap.md, before:

---
---

# ScopeMap

The ScopeMap class handles the mapping from local and imported keys in an Asset to the
globally-specified keys that are used internally to store item data in the database.

---

## Needs Addressed

---

- Programmers need a straightforward way to handle translation of keys during Asset
management

---

## Usage

### Constructor

```ts
    const scopeMap = newScopeMap({
        VORTEX: 'ROOM#VORTEX',
        clockTower: 'FEATURE#1234-abcd',
        downtownMap: 'MAP#5678-efef'
    })
```

### importAssetIds

Pulls global mapping data from the mapping of previous imports, merges it into the ScopeMap
object key mapping, and then returns the calculated importTree.

```ts
    const importTree = await scopeMap.importAssetIds({
        VORTEX: {
            asset: 'BASE',
            key: 'VORTEX',
        },
        welcomeRoom: {
            asset: 'BASE',
            key: 'welcome'
        }
    })
```

### getTranslateFile

Looks up the translate file from S3 and imports the key mappings into the ScopeMap object.
Returns non-scope contents of the translateFile.

```ts
    const { asset, importTree } = await scopeMap.getTranslateFile(s3Client, { name: '/Player/Test/Assets/ImportTest.translate.json' })
```

### translateNormalForm

Adds translated keys to all mappable entries in a NormalForm:  EphemeraId added to Room, Map and Feature tags.
toEphemeraId added to Exits.  toFeatureId and targetTag added to Links.  Any unmapped entries in the asset are
given a UUID mapping (which is merged into the existing scopeMap data)

```ts
    const newNormalForm = scopeMap.translateNormalForm(oldNormalForm)
```

---

## Behaviors

---



---

Commit message:

ISS884: Update scopeMap README to include information about namespaceMap

lambda/assets/serialize/documentation/README.scopeMap.md, after:

---
---

# ScopeMap

The ScopeMap class handles the mapping from local and imported keys in an Asset to the
globally-specified keys that are used internally to store item data in the database.

---

## Needs Addressed

---

- Programmers need a straightforward way to handle translation of keys during Asset
management

---

## Usage

### Constructor

```ts
    const scopeMap = newScopeMap({
        VORTEX: 'ROOM#VORTEX',
        clockTower: 'FEATURE#1234-abcd',
        downtownMap: 'MAP#5678-efef'
    })
```

### importAssetIds

Pulls global mapping data from the mapping of previous imports, merges it into the ScopeMap
object key mapping, and then returns the calculated importTree.

```ts
    const importTree = await scopeMap.importAssetIds({
        VORTEX: {
            asset: 'BASE',
            key: 'VORTEX',
        },
        welcomeRoom: {
            asset: 'BASE',
            key: 'welcome'
        }
    })
```

### getTranslateFile

Looks up the translate file from S3 and imports the key mappings into the ScopeMap object.
Returns non-scope contents of the translateFile.

```ts
    const { asset, importTree } = await scopeMap.getTranslateFile(s3Client, { name: '/Player/Test/Assets/ImportTest.translate.json' })
```

### translateNormalForm

Adds translated keys to all mappable entries in a NormalForm:  EphemeraId added to Room, Map and Feature tags.
toEphemeraId added to Exits.  toFeatureId and targetTag added to Links.  Any unmapped entries in the asset are
given a UUID mapping (which is merged into the existing scopeMap data)

```ts
    const newNormalForm = scopeMap.translateNormalForm(oldNormalForm)
```

---

## Behaviors

---

Throughout, ScopeMap records two types of mappings:
- A scopeMap variable, which maps between local in-Asset names for components, and a global UUID used by the database for
quick reference and storage
- A namespaceMap variable, which maps between local in-Asset names for components, and a root name associated with a
particular originating asset.  For instance, item welcomeRoom might map to a namespaceMap value with `key` property of
'BASE#welcome', if the component was created in Asset BASE as key 'welcome', and then imported (either directly or
through a chain of imports) by the operating asset under alias `welcomeRoom`.

*Note*:  namespaceMap also stores the global UUID under the property 'assetId'.  Worth examining at some future point
whether this information can be usefully combined, so as to be less repetitive.

---
